In this lesson we're going to look at the
list data structure, and we're
not going to talk about all the different
operations you can perform on list.
We're going to save that for later in the
course, but
right now I just wanna demonstrate how
lists are made up.
So we're gonna use the interactive shell,
so we'll open that.
And the most elementary list is the empty
list, which is just
a set of brackets, so open and closed
bracket represents the empty list.
If we wanna actually create a list with
items in it,
we put items in the list, separating each
item with a comma.
So I've created a list called Numbers that
consists of the numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4.
And you see I can retrieve it just like
so.
If I want to access a list element, I use
index notation.
So, the first element will be in numbers
of
0, the second element will be in numbers
of 1,
third element will be in numbers of 2, and
the
4th element will be in numbers of 3, like
so.
And, there's my sum by just adding them
together.
So that's a common way to retrieve each
list element individually.
If I want to retrieve what's called a
slice, I can write
zero, two, and that will return two
starting at the first position.
Let's look at another example.
So, there's three, and there's another
example of pulling a slice.
If we want to know how many items are in,
or
elements are in a list, we can use the lin
function.
We can of course put strings into lists.
So what I'm gonna do here is create a
couple of lists with words in them, or
actually strings.
Strings is a more technical description of
what's in these lists, and
of course they will display just like any
other list would display.
If I want to combine them, I can use
concatenation and I now
I get a list that consist of combinations
of words and words plus 1.
So, look at one more example, are actually
two more examples.
If I wanna replicate a list, I just the
multiplication operator and the number of
times I want to replicate it, and it will
give me the list that many times.
So there's an example of displaying the
list word five times.
Finally, you can create nested sub-lists.
So for example, if I have a double name
like
this, I may want to instead make it its
own list.
So I can put a list inside, just like so,
and then
when I retrieve it, it shows me that item
as a list.
Where as the other items will be displayed
just as a string.
So those are the basics of how list's in
python work.
And as I said in a later lesson, or
lessons we'll spend more time performing
operations on lists.
What I wanted to do in this lesson was
just demonstrate how lists are formed.
So let's move on to another common data
structure in Python, the dictionary.